---
title: Reflective
featured: /assets/images/pic02.jpg
layout: post
---

In this semester our project group spent a decent amount of time working on an Android App called Pathmapper, which is a substitute for the print media of Botanic Garden. It provides more useful information online for visitors to the garden who have mobile devices.


Since the Pathmapper was initially developed by the last project group, we then had a quick glance, and it turns out there were a couple of functions that could be done better and more features could be achieved regarding our client requirements. Therefore my first task was to design new wired frames preparing to give this App a modern look and a better scale for future extension.


In order to make this App a unified design style, I looked up a few examples of apps online to provide myself with more general ideas. At the end of the previous semester, I realized that one of my key flaws was a lack of communication, so this semester I focused on improving my communication with client and teammates. I know it is necessary to ask others for advice too, so I first drew a mock-up and then showed it to them. This method seemed pretty useful since everyone wanted to contribute their ideas, which made it considerably easy to incorporate all ideas and end up getting a good product for our final approach.


Not everything could be done perfectly the first time, including our approach to resolving problems for this App. GPS was the first obstacle we tried to conquer. As many smartphones have inaccurate GPS, it seemed impossible to locate every user precisely in the garden. We took it to the Garden a couple of times and finally decided to provide two options so that the user would able to turn the GPS on or off depending on its performance on their phone. Considering not all problems could be resolved in term of the technique or knowledge we had so far, transferring a problem to be another that can be easily solved appears to be vital for the programmer. Learning how to do this gave me an ability to adapt to change.


Similarly, halfway through the development of our App, I clearly remembered that our client did not like the entire layout when we showed her the App. We were not frustrated right away, and soon we quickly made a new plan to fit our client&#39;s requirements. We know there would be some way to work it out based on our previous experience with the GPS issue. Because we had a time constraint at this point, peer programming was a top-priority approach. Compare to working individually; it would have taken three times as long to solve. Jordan, one of my group mates, and I figured out a solution, and I knew that two other group mates also worked together at the time, which made us less stressed and more productive.


But still, you can not always work with others. Most of the work needs to be done by yourself for the majority of the time.


Before doing Projects this year, I regularly rely on others&#39; help when I encountered some complex programming problems, but this semester I used the intergraded debugger to help me solve these problems, stepping through each line of code to find out the source of the problem. I realized while you are trying to solve a problem, it is the same way as you learn a new thing or figure out a new way of resolving the same kind of issue in the future, and you may also have a chance to review your code and make adjustments on it.


One of the best things being a programmer is that for the tasks you are going to do, the first thing to do is to put them in a manageable sequence and then give them a deadline. The same thing is true in life. I remember that one of my flaws was time management last semester, but by the time I finished Project2, I have developed these skills. Making a plan of what you are going to do was essential, it could force you to focus on the work, so the time spent viewing Facebook became the time to think about polishing up one of the features in the App. If my work plan outlined the time constraints, then all of this gave me a better time consciousness to let me be more productive on the project.


Although the Project class is the accumulation of what we have learned throughout Bachelor of Information Technology degree, there still are more programming skills awaiting for us to comprehend. Same as Project One, there were a couple of new things we did not learn about in class, so it required us being self-directed to learn. Working on the App this semester seems to focus specifically on Android technologies, but it asks us for more sophisticated developing skills beyond Android that I had learned in previous classes. Reading through docs and understanding them was crucial. Reflecting on last semester, I had been distracted by reading the documentation too much. From what I understand of last semester, I approached this by watching more tutorial videos, referencing someone else&#39;s solution on Stackoverflow along with reading official documentation. For example, when I had problems of differentiating two types of markers(Collection, Items in Collection) and try to draw them on the map, I first googled it, wrote some notes down, then went to find documentation and finally combined all my findings together. It turned out to be time-saving and much easier for me to grasp any new concepts.


Despite the improvement of our group, there is still lots of room to grow. For example, after we talked with an industry expert about our work, I realized it would have been great to consider a search function for the App from the beginning. And for me, I would pay more effort on communication with the client.


Just like what one of my group members said before: &quot;Project group has been a ride of many ups and downs, stress, laughs, and feelings of accomplishment.&quot; Throughout this whole year studying in the Community Software group, I not only learned a bunch of new skills that would become useful in my future career, but I also met a lot of nice people and found lasting friendships. More importantly, I am now more confident and more prepared to get into the real working environment, to adapt, to adjust and reinforce myself for new changes.
